# Inference-of-Probability-of-default-and-the-borrower---characteristics-approach-An-application-on-P2P lending

    Peer-to-peer (P2P) lending has grown faster and more efficient under the current favorable network technology environment. This non-guarantee lending mode can significantly reduce the cost of borrowing, but it also can easily cause information gaps between borrowers and lenders. In order to adapt to the risk of asymmetric information in this emerging finance, verifying the determinants of default is important to investors and the platform. This paper thus employs data from China’s online P2P lending platform to assess the probability of default and the significant impact variables. Due to the convenience and speed of P2P lending transactions, there are currently many collected trading records and features. With limited computing resources, how to reduce sample sizes and dimensions is an important issue. In this paper we adopt the stratified sampling based on the initial scoring default proportion from 97,695 datapoints in China’s P2P lending industry and retain only 1/10 of the original amount for analysis. The empirical study employs a one hundred times re-sampling experiment to prove that our stratified sampling strategy can obtain stable results. However, in order to deal with the feature selection problem, we apply and compare the stepwise, least absolute shrinkage and selection operator (LASSO) and Bayesian approaches for logistic regression models. Next, we compare the performance of the three models with the testing datasets under different default proportions, showing that the Bayesian method is the most concise and effective way. The variables we finally decide to use include periods, loan periods (contract time of loan), interest rate, interest due, loan amount, telephone authentication, and loan type. Many pre-loan authentications defined by China’s P2P lending platform are not important factors, contrarily highlighting the importance of borrowing platforms to enhance the mandatory of authentication. In exploring the probability of a loan default, we utilize logistic quantile regression (LQR) to estimate the effects of given variables on various quantile levels and apply the Cox proportional hazard (Cox PH) model to measure the default probability in different repayment periods. The LQR estimates show that the interest due, borrowing period, and loan period increase the probability of default and have a significant turnaround on the quantile level of 0.6. On the other side, the loan interest rate and loan amount have a negative impact on default probability. In the estimation of the Cox PH model, we get the default hazard of different repayment periods and find that the default risk increases significantly after the repayment period exceeds one year and a half.
